start with the war in Gaza and a ship
carrying humanitarian Aid is expected to
set sail to the territory from Cyprus
this weekend it's part of a planned
Maritime Aid Corridor it's a joint
operation between the EU us UK and
United Arab Emirates aiming to bring
supplies from Cypress to the coast of
Gaza the UN says a quarter of gaza's
population is on the brink of famine and
children there are starving to death
organizers hope the plan could allow
additional Aid to be brought in in but
they contined to press Israel to allow
more deliveries by Road these are the
latest pictures from lanica in Cyprus as
you can see Aid is being loaded onto a
ship which is due to depart in a couple
of
hours the European Union's ambassador to
the US told the BBC a little more about
the plans for the maritime Corridor
hopefully the p uh the pilot the first
try to to to get Aid already happened
over the weekend but uh it it takes some
time to make sure that uh it's not only
once in a once in a time but it's a
sustainable way to provide aid for the
for the people in in Gaza and Palestine
to make sure that we alleviate ease the
situation in in the region Cyprus for a
long time have been a a part on on the
way uh to uh to to the region so
hopefully this could really help because
five of the EU member states is is on
board and uh and we see it as the
possibility to to increase fre the aid
and to have a possibility to provide it
as soon as possible here's Pentagon
spokesperson Patrick Ryder importantly
there will be no US forces on the ground
in Gaza finally in terms of timing we're
working to set this up as quickly as
possible but we expect that it will take
several weeks to plan and execute once
operational the actual amount of Aid
delivered will depend on many variables
and will likely scale Over time however
we expect that deliveries via jots could
provide more than 2 million meals to the
citizens of Gaza per day for the latest
on the maritime Aid corridors I spoke to
our Middle East correspondent W Davis in
Jerusalem of course there are several
possible routes to get Aid into Gaza
where there is a huge humanitarian
crisis uh children dying from
malnutrition a real risk of famine
according to the UN 300,000 people
particularly in Northern Gaza without
any real adequate food or Aid some
trucks are getting in clearly not enough
so uh the U EU uh the UAE and other
organizations have come up with this
plan for a sort of a maritime Corridor
and this would entail a ship leaving
Cyprus today car towing a barge and on
that barge would be around we understand
200 tons of Aid problem is that when it
gets to Gaza there's no port in Gaza
there's a war going on there's no
obvious way to safely uh remove and then
distribute all of that Aid and it's a
real logistical nightmare we've been
asking questions but haven't really had
any satisfactory answers this is a test
run this weekend if it works and it's a
big if I think then that will become a
regular route for aid from Cyprus
towards Gaza of course we then got the
separate Joe Biden plan to build a
temporary Port facility off the coast of
Gaza uh that would be built by American
Army Engineers but critically no
American boots on the uh military boots
on the ground but that's two months away
at the very least all the while the aid
agencies is saying look the best way to
get Aid into Gaza is through Israel uh
let's try and persuade the Israelis and
I know Lord Cameron the UK foreign
secretary has been talking to the
Israelis about opening up the port of
ashod that is just to the north of Gaza
it's a huge container Port it's only
half an hour 40 minutes away from the
eres Crossing into Gaza and that would
be uh the aid agencies in particular say
a much more practical way of getting
badly needed Aid into Gaza meanwhile
while that's not happen happening while
there's a disagreement between the
Israelis and various agencies and there
is no ceasefire this Maritime Corridor
is the favored method of hopefully
getting Aid into Gaza although it
probably won't be enough and what the
are the Israelis saying about um their
military campaign and the latest from
there it's interesting you know this
ceasefire that everybody had hoped would
be in place this weekend simply hasn't
happened the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu reiterated his
priority
uh a couple of days ago at a military
graduation ceremony he said that Israel
will continue its military operation in
southern Gaza not to do that would be to
admit defeat despite the international
pressure Mr Netanyahu acknowledged the
level of pressure he's coming under to
to agree to to a cease fire to allow
more Aid in but I think reading between
the lines for for Mr Netanyahu his
priority is this as he would see it this
unfinished military business in Gaza and
what more of any hopes of ceasefire
talks with Ramadan approaching now just
hours
away yeah that that's a really good
question I think they haven't given up
on that Hamas have left Cairo now but
the Qatari and Egyptian mediators are
ready to to talk to Hamas and the
Israelis indirectly hopefully get them
back around the table and agree to a a
40-day Seas fire that's the this Paris
framework uh if that doesn't happen the
war continues if it happens and there
are significant obstacles to allowing it
to happen but if it happens then of
course one of the big beneficiaries
would be more Aid officially to a to get
into Gaza uh through roads through
Israel which is a much more effective
and efficient way of getting Aid to the
people who need it